Subject : Computer Networks - I

Sources :
https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/types-of-computer-networks/
https://www.javatpoint.com/types-of-computer-network

Question:
What are different types of Computer Networks.

Brief:
A computer network is a cluster of computers over a shared communication
path that work for the purpose of sharing resources from one computer to
another, provided by or located on the network nodes.

The most used computer networks are as follows:
1. Local Area Network(LAN)
2. Personal Area Network(PAN)
3. Metropolitan Area Network(MAN)
4. Wide Area Network(WAN)

Local Area Network(LAN)
This is a group of computer connected together in a small distance area.
A building, office can have this type of connection.
The medium of connection maybe wireless or wired.
Most users prefer wired connections for high data transfer speeds and ease of use.
Highly secure and reliable.

Personal Area Network(PAN)
A network which is mostly controlled by an individual person.
This network is used to connect devices to transfer files and folders.
For example:
Someone who wants to transfer photos from his laptop to a smartphone.

Metropolitan Area Network(MAN)
A Wide Area Network is a network that extends over a large geographical area
such as states or countries.
A Wide Area Network is not limited to a single location, but it spans over
a large geographical area through a telephone line, fibre optic cable or satellite links.

Wide Area Network(WAN)
A Wide Area Network is a network that extends over a large geographical area such
as states or countries.
The internet is one of the biggest WAN in the world.

Other types of networks

Storage Area Network(SAN)
SAN is a type of computer network that is high speed and connects groups of
storage devices to several servers.

System Area Network (SAN)
A SAN is a type of computer network that connects a cluster of high performance
computers. It is a connection-oriented and high bandwidth network.
A SAN is a type of LAN that handles high amounts of information in large requests.
This Networks is used to connect server clusters together.

Enterprise Private Network (EPN)
This type of connection is opt by big enterprises to secure there connections by
introducting layers of protection.

Virtual Private Network(VPN)
A VPN is a type of computer network that extends a private network across the
internet and lets the user send and receive data as if they were connected to a
private network even though they are not.
